Text Detection Overflow:

    predicting and localising the text instances

            1. Image with text ---> 2. Preprocessing ---> 3. Segmentation
    
                1. Image with text :

                    can be any document like jpeg, pdf , png, or any other readable image format

                2. Preprocessing :

                    we remove the noise from image using the following techniques so that we remove the unwanted 
                    distortion in the images and enhance the important features.
                    
                        Binarisation:
                        
                        It is a process of converting color image to grayscale.
                        
                        Thresholding:
                        
                        It is used to isolate an object or other element information im the image.
                        threshhold limits are set for objects to isolate.

                        if the lighting conditions are not good may not return the expected results.
                        so we use adaptive threshholding. 

                        if the image is bimodal, 
                        then we use otsu binarisation with gaussian blur as otsu binarisation automatically
                        calculates the threshold value from image histogram in bimodal image.
                    
                        rescaling:

                        we either shrinking the image using inter_area or enlarging the image using inter_linear 
                        or inter_cubic so that we can recognize the smaller object in the image. 


                        Noise Removal:

                        There are many noise removal techniques to process the image.

                            Morphology:

                                set of operations based on Predefined structuring elements called as kernels.
                                The value of the each pixel in the output image based on the comparision of the
                                corresponding pixel in the input image with its neighbours.
                                By choosing the size of the kernel, we can construct a morphological operation
                                that is sensitive to specific shapes regarding the input image. The pixels added 
                                or removed depend on the size and shape of the kernel.


                        
                            Small Dots:
                                Also called as small noise, comes during scanning due to low clarity camera or a 
                                shadow on image. this can be removed by finding contours and filter using contour area.


                            Image Blurring:

                                Image blurring is achieved by convolving the image with low-pass filter kernel. 
                                There are many filters. such as 
                                1. gaussian blurring 
                                2. bilateral filtering

    
                            Dilation/Erosion:

                                Dilation: 
                                Which removes pixels from the boundaries of the object in an image so all the pixels
                                near the boundary will be discarded depending upon the size of kernel and the thickness
                                or simply white 

                            Deskewing:

                            Orientation:

                            Perspective Transormation:

                            Borders:

                    

                3.  Segmentation:

                    we now segment the image so that we detect the text content easily. 
