Version control:

    It keeps the track of changes in the source code so that you can revert to the earlier versions later.
    It generally means if you screw up files or lose them you can easily revert to the earlier state.

Types of Version control:

    Local version control systems
    centralised version control systems
    Distributed version control systems

Important terminologies:

    SCM (source code manager)
    Repository  is a project directory which contains project related files or directories.
    Working directory  
    Check out   when the contents of the work is copies to the working directory
    Staging area    it is a pre-committing area
    Commit  
    SHA     it is a unique ID 40 long character.
    Branch  It is a new line of development


Repository in GIT:
    A software Repository is the centralised storage location for software packages
    
    Local Repository    which is a collection of files and directories placed in local systems

    remote Repository   which is collection of files and directories placed in remote systems


Creating a Repository:

    Can be done in two ways

        .   Initializing a Repository in local machine
        .   Cloning a remote Repository

        Initializing a Repository in local machine

            mkdir sample
            cd sample
            git init        it initializes empty git Repository and .git/ folder is also created


            git status      for checking the status of the Repository like which brach it is on,
                                                        commits,  untracked files,  etc...
            
            git add .       adds files and folders to the Repository for later commits

            git commit  -m  "message"           it commit the changes to the Repository


        Cloning a Repository from remote or github

            git clone   https://github.com/visarad/sample.git

            above cones a Repository from git upon which you can do the further process.

        
        To remove a file from staging area so as not to commit that file.


            git restore --staged   <file>.<ext>


        Tagging :

            Tagging is a mechanism used to create a snap shot of git Repository.
            Tagging is traditionally used to create semantic version number identifier tags 
            that correspond to software release cycles.

            Annotaed tags
            light weight tags


            git tag -a v0.0.1       creates tag for the Repository

            after adding some files and folders you can create another tag 

            git tag -a v0.0.2 

            we can also delete the tags

            git tag -a v0.0.1


        


    











